# Profit-Trial

##The Use of Cost Survey Data to Calculate Vessel Profits for Commercial Fishing Fleets in the Northeast U.S.

#Introduction

Profit is an important metric in assessing the economic performance of commercial fishing fleets and in evaluating the impacts of proposed regulations, as required by applicable laws. Within the Northeast United States, commercial revenues are readily available to NOAA Fisheries, as all federally permitted vessels are required to report sales to licensed dealers. Cost data, on the other hand, have generally been the limiting factor in calculating vessel profits. 
The Northeast Fisheries Science Center conducts a voluntary survey, sent intermittently since the early 2000s, to collect comprehensive cost information from commercial fishing vessel owners. This survey was last implemented during March-July 2023 for costs incurred during calendar year 2022. One of the primary goals of the survey is to calculate vessel-level profits; this goal was communicated throughout the outreach process leading up to and during implementation of the most recent survey. 
Using data primarily collected from the most recent cost survey, this paper highlights the methods/process for calculating 2022 profit for commercial vessels who participated in the survey effort. These methods support the profit snapshots which serve as a key performance metric in evaluating the economic impacts of proposed fishery management actions in the future. 

# Cost Survey Background

Starting in 2007, the Social Sciences Branch (SSB) of the Northeast Fisheries Science Center (NEFSC) has intermittently collected commercial fishing cost information from vessel owners. Information is collected through a voluntary survey which includes questions on costs such as vessel repairs and improvements, vessel insurance, trip expenses, crew payments, and overhead. The most recent survey, formally known as the Greater Atlantic Region Commercial Fishing Business Cost Survey for 2022 (hereafter 2022 cost survey), was fielded in 2023 to collect costs incurred by vessel owners during calendar year 2022. Each owner of a federally permitted commercial fishing vessel that was active in either calendar year 2021 or 2022 received a survey. A total of 2,495 individuals were sent the 2022 cost survey with 422 surveys returned. After accounting for incomplete returned surveys and ineligibles within the sampling frame, the final response rate was 14.8% (367/2,477). This response rate was slightly lower than the 16.8% average response rate over the six previous cost surveys fielded since 2007. For further details on the implementation of the 2022 cost survey see Werner et al. (2024). For more information on early iterations of the cost survey, see Das (2015) and Ardini et al. (2022).
